---
title: "OpenFusion 1.2.1 released"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2020-10-25T06:59:12-05:00
lastmod: 2024-06-24T06:59:12-05:00
draft: false
weight: 50
categories: []
tags: []
contributors: []
pinned: false
homepage: false
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
* Sliders are now spawned for each stop and will traverse the full route.
* Nano stations now consume the correct amount of power items and FM.
* Added some missing NPCs, as well as moved others to the correct instance.
* Update ``src/contrib/sqlite_orm`` to 1.6.
* Use a private instance for the Time Lab, so you no longer see other players.
* Fix Numbuh 3's sneak and revive abilities being swapped.
* Fixed a bug where players would desync when walking into a new chunk.
* Warping into IZs and Fusion Lairs now will also take into account your group members.
* Mobs pursue their targets more smoothly, they will avoid phasing into the player during combat.
* Nerfed retreat speed by a factor of 1.5, normal mobs retreated way too quickly however mobs like Don Doom and Bad Max do not retreat fast enough.
* Nano drain power works, currently does 30% damage over a period of 3 seconds.
* Stun, Sleep and Snare powers will now run out of time on mobs.
* Two new types of mission tasks are now functional: delivery and timed. All escort missions should now be skipped as well.
* Various tweaks to nano power, enemy damage, boost consumption, and player health regen.
* Fixed an issue where sometimes the weapons players equip would be desynced.
* Tweaked the installUnity.bat file slightly in the FreeClient folder.

[Release Page](https://github.com/OpenFusionProject/OpenFusion/releases/tag/1.2.1)
