---
title: "OpenFusion 1.2 released"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2020-10-19T06:59:12-05:00
lastmod: 2024-06-24T06:59:12-05:00
draft: false
weight: 50
categories: []
tags: []
contributors: []
pinned: false
homepage: false
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
With nearly 250 commits since the last release, 1.2 adds numerous features, making the Future area of the game playable!
* Combat and enemy AI is implemented.
  * Enemies will fight back and give chase within a certain range. They will also idly wander within a radius.
  * Damage formula takes into account armor/damage values, as well as Nano type match-up and weapon boosts.
  * Combat nano powers such as leech, snare, damage, and stun, are also functional.
* Most passive Nano powers should now be functional.
* All missions should be functional, with the exception of those that require certain mobs to be present.
  * Timed and escort missions are also skipped currently.
* CRATES now drop from mobs and have a proper loot table.
* Nano potions and weapon boosts are functional.
* You can now create and invite other players to groups.
* SCAMPERS and the Monkey Skyway System are now 100% functional.
  * A big thank you to all the participants that helped map out the monkey routes!
* Stackable items now work and can be re-arranged in your inventory freely.
* A majority of NPCs have been rotated to face the proper direction.
* All item vendors now buy and sell the correct items!
* Crocpot item combining has been added.
* Public (Infected Zones) and private instances (Fusion Lairs) are now usable.
* Chunking has been added, giving a significant performance boost.
* Add custom commands system. (see /help for commands in-game)
* Countless bug fixes, refactors, and stability improvements.

[Release Page](https://github.com/OpenFusionProject/OpenFusion/releases/tag/1.2)
