---
title: "OpenFusion 1.3 released"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2020-12-23T06:59:12-05:00
lastmod: 2024-06-24T06:59:12-05:00
draft: false
weight: 50
categories: []
tags: []
contributors: []
pinned: false
homepage: false
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
Happy Holidays! We are proud to introduce one of OpenFusion's biggest releases yet - version 1.3. Not only does it introduce a new playable version - the Academy - but also boasts an updated client to easily change between servers and versions. Read on for all the details.

Note that although the game is now basically fully playable, we're not calling it complete yet. There's still a number of little bugs to fix and internal stuff to refactor before we do so. That's why we're not disabling commands on the primary public server just yet.

## New Client 
The new client not only lets you select between different servers, but also different versions of FusionFall. It features a slick, Dexlabs-inspired design that's easy to use - no more installing Unity manually or editing .php files.
This means If you ever get bored of the future you could switch academy build with the touch of a button.

## The Academy
After many requests, the Academy version of Fusionfall is now available to play in all its nostalgic glory. We will be hosting a public server that should be available from the new client by default, so hop on and give it a try!
Bear in mind that the Academy version of Fusionfall has its fair share of bugs, and we don't have all features available yet, but we will be gradually updating it as things go along.
That being said, If you run into any game-breaking bugs/glitches do not hesitate to report it to us.

## General Changes
*Note: this is a summarized change log from 1.2.1 (Oct 25) to 1.3 (Dec 23), so you may see some changes that were already on the public server.*
- Added mobs to all areas of the map, including the overworld, infected zones, and fusion lairs.
- Buddies are implemented: you can add, remove, warp, email, and chat with them!
- Group/pack mobs have been implemented - albeit not all are present on the map at this time.
- Racing has been added for all infected zones, get out there and set a new high score!
- Coco Eggs are implemented - all known golden eggs are placed, status effect eggs are yet to be added.
- All nano powers are now functional and replicate how they functioned in the original game.
- All enemy abilities are now functional including corruption, eruption, battery drain, and stun.
- Huge performance improvement all-around, mainly due to use of polling and more efficient checking for which mobs are visible.
- Database code has been overhauled, improving performance and maintainability.
- Added validation to several packets, mostly involving strings.
- Numerous other additions, bug fixes, and tweaks.

We hope to see you in the Academy! Enjoy!

[Release Page](https://github.com/OpenFusionProject/OpenFusion/releases/tag/1.3)
