---
title: "OpenFusion 1.4 released"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2021-09-20T06:59:12-05:00
lastmod: 2024-06-24T06:59:12-05:00
draft: false
weight: 50
categories: []
tags: []
contributors: []
pinned: false
homepage: false
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
It's been a while, but we're coming at you today with another major release of OpenFusion - version 1.4.

## Highlights
It's come to our attention that the official Turner CDN, the server that has hosted the FusionFall assets since 2009, was recently taken offline. This has caused new players to have issues downloading game content, bringing up Unity errors and making the game unplayable. We've released a new client for 1.4 that switches away from the Turner CDN to resolve this issue. Clients should no longer have issues downloading assets. Note that the new CDN might be slightly slower when initially downloading assets, especially for players not in the NA region. This will not affect gameplay once you're actually in the game. There will be no additional lag.

We've finally made a long-overdue change to the way accounts work. Up until this point, account names were case-sensitive, which meant that using different capitalization when typing in your account name caused it to be treated as a totally separate account. This, combined with the fact that logging into a non-existent account creates a new one, caused a lot of confusion with people thinking their accounts had been deleted. We've now made logins case-insensitive, which fixes this issue.

This required getting rid of a whole lot of unused duplicate accounts on the public servers. Accounts that were obviously unused (had no characters, or only one character still in the tutorial before the future) have been deleted. Duplicate accounts where it wasn't so obvious as to which one was the real one have been renamed slightly. From each group of duplicates, the account with the largest sum of player character levels keeps its name unchanged, while the others have been prepended with underscores. If your usual username doesn't log you into your main account, don't panic. Just add one (or more) underscore characters (\_) to the beginning of your account name, and that should log you into the other one. If your username was very long (close to 32 characters), the addition of leading underscores might have trimmed off the tail end of it. If you're unsure, don't hesitate to ask for help on our Discord.
Many of the miscellaneous changes listed here have already been on the public server for months now. These release notes are just here to summarize changes that have been steadily made since the previous full release (v1.3). They will mostly be relevant to people playing on their local servers or hosting (non-bleeding edge) public servers for others.
We've also started a refactor that should eventually make the codebase a lot cleaner and more readable. The refactor is still largely a work-in-progress, but will have significant long-term benefits as it progresses.

## Client Changes
The new client version is available either as an installer or a standalone zip file. Use whatever you prefer!
* Changed the default game versions to get assets from a different CDN (should fix "Invalid Unity Web File" error)
* Implemented automatic cache swapping, so you don't have to re-download all the game assets every time you switch versions
* Added an Edit button to change details for existing servers
* Added a button to reset the server list

## Additions
* Group members now share the same mob drops, limited based on proximity
* GMs can now enter private instances
* Added /unwarpable command
* Mob range is now smaller when racing, as if the player were sneaking
* Implemented most of the remaining (administrative) client-side GM commands
* Added basic rapidfire anti-cheat (currently cannot be disabled)
* Mobs can now use Leech and Freedom abilities
* Added /[un]registerall (GMs no longer have all fast-travel locations unlocked by default)
* Shard servers can now be reached from the same network they're hosted on
* Implemented a rudimentary /ban command
* Mob aggro range is now affected by the level difference between the player and mob
* Changed how tabledata is structured
* Improved NPC pathing capabilities
* Added /path command for creating NPC paths
* Improved drop format to allow more flexibility with mob drops
* Added a patching system for tabledata modding purposes that can be enabled via config
* Mobs can now get critical hits
* Added preliminary logic for escort missions. still automatically skipped for now

## Bugfixes
* Fixed an issue where IZ races would reward an invalid item, softlocking characters in the process
* When warping to a buddy, you will now be returned to the overworld instance
* Fixed group members not respawning properly in instanced areas
* Using recall during a race will no longer cause the FM pods to disappear
* You can no longer warp to players that are using the Monkey Skyway System
* Mobs will no longer attack players that are using the Monkey Skyway System
* Fixed being able to spawn in an invalid Nano #37
* Heal nanos now heal for the correct amount
* Academy servers no longer spawn NPCs in the Future zone
* All group members now dismount their vehicle when warping into an instance
* Made sure the current race is cleared when leaving an IZ
* Prevented ongoing race from being canceled by Recall
* Fixed players not dying when falling out of the map
* Fixed the way group mobs retreat
* Fixed NPCs with invalid types being loaded in
* Player's now dismount their vehicle when unequipping it
* If a player times out a race, warp them back to the start
* Fixed group mobs becoming invisible occasionally
* Fixed some issues with quest items, added /itemQ command for debugging
* Fixed a series of problems related to some items having a quantity of 0
* Disallowed code items being redeemed multiple times
* Fixed a server crash when redeeming more than four items at once
* Fixed Croc-Potted items being sellable
* Mobs no longer play the heal animation when they retreat
* Adjusted damage calculation for the Damage Nano power
* Improved sanity checks when opening crates and combining items
* Sold items are now kept track of to prevent buyback-related cheating
* The server no longer allows cheating by completing missions that weren't in progress
* Fixed an exploit that involved attaching the same item to an email twice
* Prevented hopping on vehicles in non-overworld instances
* Prevent players from collecting the same pod twice in races
* Other general bug fixes

[Release Page](https://github.com/OpenFusionProject/OpenFusion/releases/tag/1.4)
